README.md, before:

# masonmcgough.com

This website serves as both a personal website for myself as well as a demo application using the Python Flask web application framework. 

## Installation

These instructions describe the process of setting up a local _development_ instance of this website. They do not describe how to deploy a similar website in production. 

### 1. Install the requirements for this project

This project has just a handful of dependencies, the most important of which is `flask`. Use the package manager to install these.

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Set Flask environment variables in `set_envs.sh`

Flask uses a few variables to run this application. `FLASK_APP` tells Flask where to find the application. When set to `mywebsite`, it automatically detects and executes the `create_app` factory to create an app. `FLASK_ENV` sets the [Flask environment](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/cli/#environments), which is normally "production" by default. In the case of this source, it is set to "development", which enables an interactive debugger and reloader. It should be changed to "production" before being deployed on a server.

```
source ./set_envs.sh
```

### 3. Launch application

This step will launch the web application in a Flask app instance.

```
flask run
```

Verify that this worked by navigating to http://127.0.0.1:5000/. You should see the front page.

## To-do
* update Projects with new work

Commit message:

* Update README.md to include database setup. * Update GitHub link to point to new profile.

README.md, after:

# masonmcgough.com

This website serves as both a personal website for myself as well as a demo application using the Python Flask web application framework. 

## Installation

These instructions describe the process of setting up a local _development_ instance of this website. They do not describe how to deploy a similar website in production. 

### 1. Install the requirements for this project

This project has just a handful of dependencies, the most important of which is `flask`. Use the package manager to install these.

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Set Flask environment variables in `set_envs.sh`

Flask uses a few variables to run this application. `FLASK_APP` tells Flask where to find the application. When set to `mywebsite`, it automatically detects and executes the `create_app` factory to create an app. `FLASK_ENV` sets the [Flask environment](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/cli/#environments), which is normally "production" by default. In the case of this source, it is set to "development", which enables an interactive debugger and reloader. It should be changed to "production" before being deployed on a server.

```
source ./set_envs.sh
```

### 3. Initialize database

Before we can access the website, we need to initialize the database and fill it with a few posts. This website comes with a simple command line interface powered by [Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com/). Run the following command to initialize the database.

```
flask init-db
```

### 4. Launch application

We should be good to start now. This step will launch the web application in a Flask app instance.

```
flask run
```

Verify that this worked by navigating to http://127.0.0.1:5000/. You should see the front page.

## To-do
* update Projects with new work
